docs: ZK Game + SSO tutorial (#107)
zkSync-Community-Hub/community-code: content/tutorials/build-a-zk-game/10.index.md

---
title: Build a ZK Game
description: Learn how to verify ZK proofs onchain by building a game.
---

## Prerequisites

- **You must have access to SP1's prover network.**
  At the time of writing, you must follow [these instructions](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/generating-proofs/prover-network) to gain access to the network.
- This tutorial uses TypeScript, Rust, and Solidity. You should have some experience with at least two of these languages.
- You must have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) version `20` installed.
- You must have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed.
- You will need [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) installed to run a local node.

## What You Will Build

In this tutorial you will build a game that:

1. Lets users verify their high scores onchain using ZK proofs.
1. Integrates ZKsync SSO and a paymaster for seamless UX.

::centered-container

![zk-game-preview](/images/zk-game/zk-game.png)

::

## Why use ZK?

> If have ever tried to build a game onchain,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have ever tried to build a game onchain,
```

you know that there are some unique limitations.
For example, if you put every player move onchain, the game quickly becomes slow and expensive.
But without every move onchain, how can you verify the player's achievements in a permissionless way?

What if you could somehow let anyone prove their own final score onchain, without giving away how they achieved it?
What if you could give players the option of skipping any onchain activity when they didn't get the score they wanted?

One way to accomplish this is by using ZK proofs.

## Introduction to ZK proofs

> If you are new to ZK proofs, here is a very brief summary what you need to know:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to ZK proofs, here is a very brief summary of what you need to know:
```

- A proof and its public outputs can be verified onchain using a verifier contract.
- An important property of ZK is that verifying the proofs is very cheap.
  If you use a ZK proof for a large computation, the blockchain only needs to do a very small verification. This is very helpful for saving costs.

## How it will work

We will use a re-creation of a popular game known as "Breakout" or "Brickles".
The game will record the player's movements on the client.

When the player decides to save their high score onchain,
the client will send the recorded actions, final score, and time to a backend service to generate a proof.

On the backend, the game will be re-run using those recorded actions inside an SP1 program.
In the game contract, we will make sure that this exact program is being run using a program verification key.
With this, we are able to create a proof that the recorded actions indeed produce the same score and time that the player claims.

::centered-container

![zk-game-flow-chart](/images/zk-game/zk-game-flow-chart.png)

::

One condition of this method is that the game must be deterministic.

> This means that for given player inputs, it will always result in the same score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that for a given player inputs, it will always result in the same score.
```

> The game itself is all written in Rust, so the exact same game code is running in the client and the backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The game is written entirely in Rust, ensuring that the exact same code runs on both the client and the backend.
```
